[Music] Everybody now deals
with machine learning. But recommender systems are certainly one of the major applications. Classifications, cluster
analysis, trying to find some of the marketing
questions from 20 years ago, market basket analysis, what goods tend to be bought together. That was computationally a
very difficult problem, I mean we're now doing that all the
time with machine learning. So predictive analytics is
another area of machine learning. We're using new
techniques to predict things that statisticians
don't particularly like. Decision trees, Bayesian
Analysis, naive Bayes, lots of different techniques. The nice thing about them is
that in packages like R now, you really have to understand
how these techniques can be used and you don't have to
know exactly how to do them but you have to understand
what their meanings are. Precision versus recall and
the problems of over sampling and over fitting so you can,
someone who knows a little about data science can
apply these techniques but they really need to
know, maybe not the details of the technique as much as
how, what the trade-offs are. So, some applications of
machine learning in fintech are probably the - couple of different
things I could talk about there. One of them is recommendations. Right, so, when you use Netflix,
or you use Facebook, or a lot of different software services, the recommendations are served to
you. Meaning, "Hey, you're a user, you've watched this show, so maybe
you'd like to see this other show." Right, or, you follow this person, so maybe
 you should follow this other person. It's actually kind of the same thing
in fintech, right. Because you've looked at - if you're an
investment professional, right, and because you've looked at this
investment idea, it might be really cool for you to look at this other
investment idea, which is kind of similar. Right, it's a similar kind of
 asset, it's a similar kind of company. Or it's a similar kind of technique
for doing the investment. So, We can apply recommendations using
machine learning throughout a lot of different parts of fintech. Another one that people talk about, and
is important especially on retail, in the retail aspects of banking and
finance is fraud detection. Trying to determine whether a charge
that comes a credit card is fraudulent or not, in real time, is a
machine learning problem. Right, you have to learn from all of the
 transactions that have happened previously and build a model, and when the charge 
 comes through you have to compute all this stuff and say, "Yeah we think
that's ok," or "hmm, that's not so good. Let's route it to, you know,
our fraud peope to check."